when screen printing with plastisol ink
it's very important to be able to
quickly and effectively clean the ink
out of the screen now this is a
petroleum-based product so won't clean
out with soap or water I didn't know
that when I started so we wasted a lot
of soap and water scrub brushes and rags
trying to get the ink out of the screens
and eventually just came gave up using
the right tool though it makes it very
simple today we're gonna be showcasing a
tool at a product called screen wash 147
it's a Citra based product and by CCI
chemicals and available through our
website so screen and supplies com very
user friendly doesn't think that bad and
it's pretty economical to use plus it
works great so the first thing that
we're gonna do is we want to clean our
screen out all the way so kind of
printing in a weird angle here so you
guys can see what I'm doing but what I'm
doing with the sweetie is getting as
much ink out of the screen as possible
you don't want to clean a bunch of ink
out if you have the ability to get the
ink out of the screen first obviously so
we're gonna take it sideways and then
we're gonna get as much ink on sweetie
as possible so this thing's gonna go
back into our container obviously but
we're just gonna set this aside for now
next we're going to take our ink knife
and then scoop out the remaining amount
of ink now there's a couple different
ways obviously to clean the screen you
can do it in a wash out sink as well
with products that are called ink wash
this is called a press wash meaning that
you're gonna do this while it's on press
so I got as much ink out of here as
possible scrape a little bit more here
and then what we're gonna do is we're
going to take the screen wash and a
product that's a very very absorbent
cleaning wipe called Rio wipes and we're
just gonna pour a little bit into the
screen like this now we actually have a
junk shirt underneath this right here
protecting the palate as you can see
this product I'm wearing gloves to you
my hands clean but this product
dissolves a pretty much immediately once
it hits it we're leaving the tape in
that allows us to keep the tape in and
not have to retake the screen if you're
using a higher-quality solvent resistant
screen tape we're using the white screen
tape now from so excreting supplies calm
very economical screen tape but if
you're just using a masking tape what's
going to happen is this solvents going
to eat right into that tape and just
literally destroy the tape so we got a
good amount of ink being cleaned up here
we can take our rag and like flip it
inside out to get a little bit
more absorption power and then what
we'll do is we'll do a dry cleaner so we
got most of the major part of the ink
out and this doesn't smell bad at all
which is great a lot of the solvents
cleaners in the industry smell really
really bad so this doesn't smell bad and
it works really good so what I do is I
typically have like an old rag that is
will go down first now I use two new
ranks for this process but the old rag
is good because we can just throw that
right in it doesn't have to be super
clean now we'll take just a little bit
more screen wash and a lot of people
will use this in a spray bottle which
actually I prefer take that and use that
in a spray bottle but we don't have a
spray bottle right now so we're just
using in the gallon container and now
I'm doing a final wipe and as you can
see see that screen is cleaning up
nicely so this is the way to clean
screens using screen wash 147 it's a
sifter based cleaner and it also works
great on your press so once the screens
all cleaned out now this is good for a
storage if we are doing a color wipe or
a color change I mean that we actually
wanted to change the color in the screen
we'd probably want to get in there and
do one more final clean you can actually
use this same towel to clean the back of
the screen off and once again if we're
gonna be doing the color wipe we want to
take a clean rag and get all that off
and screen opener works good for that
too or you can just scrub it
aggressively like so and now it's all
cleaned off so we have a clean screen we
can wipe the edges of the frame down and
they are good to go so screen wash 147
also works great for cleaning platanus
as you can see I can clean the adhesive
right off of the platen with the screen
wash 147 it's also great for cleaning
your press that's why it's one of their
other reasons why it's called a press
wash so I can take the screen watch 147
and all the gunk and view that it gets
on your press during the printing
process you can just take and this is
extremely bad right here but as you can
see this is cleaning it off really nice
and easy without taking the pink off the
press and that's important right because
you
too harsh of a solvent it's gonna take
the pink the powder coat right off the
press and that's going to ruin your
press or over the long term so we wanna
make sure that we're using a friendly
solvent like we have here that's
protecting the press but leave meet it
with a nice glossy shine this press is
really dirty I'd recommend cleaning your
presses a little bit more often than
that this presses was just used for
classes and we printed a lot of t-shirts
on it and used a lot of spray adhesive
too which will get your press a lot
dirtier so there's a way to clean your
press there's a way to clean your screen
using the product screen wash 1:47 once
again available in quarts pints gallons
and five gallon containers even drums
from our website so Katrina supplies
calm
you